hello today I'm gonna show you how to
get into Harvard University this will be
the most detailed and honest guide on
YouTube this video will be helpful even
if you're not applying to Harvard
because the same rules apply to all
universities good morning guys today we
are here at Whistler Canada I didn't
attend Harvard University I only
attended half a University but today I
got my friend who graduated from Harvard
to tell you about how to get into
Harvard my name is Andy I graduated from
Harvard in 2013 and now I'm a product
manager at Amazon all right starting
with the application process so how many
schools did you apply to me six schools
and what did you get into I got into
Stanford Harvard and Princeton
and what made you choose hurry everyone
in my family has been an engineer so
when it came to me I wanted to do
something radically different and
Harvard was the school that had a very
good social science as well as
humanities brains so I chose to study
economics at Harvard nice so talking
about the application
what were your major extracurriculars
that got you into heart so I did a
number of academic extracurriculars
outside of school competitively so I did
quiz bowl science or science olympiad
social studies for even geography Bowl
and computer science club which I found
it
but outside of that I I think I made
myself more unique because I had a
variety of other passions as well I was
engaged with community service I also
wrote poetry and
poetry events or submit into contests
and I did sports
what's where did you do ping-pong and
track Joe to you but yeah what are you
good yeah oh so how are you grades
my grades were solid did you have like
high nine easier
I had mostly solid A's but every high
school is different so cover some
schools and low a isn't the same as did
you do AP classes I did how many I took
28 years 24 years that's all when did
you start yeah so I just want to jump in
here real quick because Annie is very
like I don't think he will make you
realize how hard he had at work to take
20 AP classes because normally people
take around 5 to 7 AP classes he tripled
that an AP class is similar to a
university class so he was taking
university classes ever since the first
year of high school just want to make
you realize and give you some context
for what's going on so did you plan to
go to Harvard when you entered high
school
no when I entered high school I really
thought I would have this
run-of-the-mill average high school
experience it would I would have a lot
of fun there would be I would study
there'd be some parties or make a lot of
friends
there'd be a little bit of drama too
just like you see in movies fan of
American Pie did you did you have the
Java you wanted no fortunately or
unfortunately high school geometry so
when you entered you didn't have the
intention when did you start thinking oh
I could go to the ivy lease or I could
go to Harvard I used to think really not
very far ahead I thought one step at a
time so I didn't really think about
college until it was close to senior
year and I remember the summer after
junior year I had just taken my SAT I
got a good sport and that was literally
the first time I thought about applying
to some of the top selected colleges
okay do you mind reviewing your score I
got a perfect score
do you have any study tips for the SAT
yeah I find a lot of students don't
really know how to study for the SAT
because the SAT is actually a test based
on your functional skills so it's not
really based on knowledge I think you
should just take tests take practice
tests and learn the skills either
reading passages or math and do practice
over and over again until you don't miss
the same questions a second time you'll
get better and better scores each day
find out find out why you miss the
questions from each practice that you do
on the SAT figure out what's the link
between what you did wrong and the right
answer and changed some kind of habit in
your head so that you can do something
different the next time you encounter a
similar type of problem and that's how
you really like learn things in general
yeah just get feedback on what you did
wrong and then do it the right way to
make sense right so how many practices
did you do roughly I I did a lot but in
a very short time so I probably did 20
or so practice tests
I took my SAT in the summertime so I had
a week off from school and I just did a
lot of practice to us without me you did
20 in one week and then you just wanted
to take the test
yeah that's all your practice I took it
twice the first time I also practice a
bit leading up to the test okay Wow I
think the most important thing is if you
are already doing solidly in school in
your classes then you're gonna have the
basic reading writing and math skills so
build that foundation and that happens
throughout
how did you approach the essay portion
of your application yes is a huge space
and I thought the only way and the best
way to use it was to write about one of
my primary involvements so that's why I
chose ping pong I went to Nationals I
didn't really do well there but every
year I would get first or second in
state okay good the other reason was its
unique yoke I think there are lots of
sports essays
I won the tennis championships or I got
second and track and how improved but
ping-pong was kind of a unique spooling
sport so I thought it spoke to my
uniqueness and strength I saw a bunch of
videos on YouTube of how they got into
Harvard and then they always talked
about like a spike like in your
application you need to have something
that stands out is that true I think
every candidate should have strengths
like highlights on your profile so for
me that was some of the competitive
activities I did as well as ping-pong
I was also strong academically but I was
actually more of the wall round type
like grades sports extracurriculars even
artistic activities that I did and
community service so I think even if
you're well-rounded Harvard would be
looking for
or interesting things about you
highlights okay and then there are
always the students who went to the
Olympics in high school those are the
real spice okay so you're saying
basically unless you are really really
strong you should be well-rounded in
your grades and have an interesting cook
yeah okay that's a massive application
tip for you guys the day when you
finally got your Harvard acceptance
letter what did you feel
I felt really good I was looking forward
to it and actually I was at the gym that
day after school and my brother logged
onto my computer and he knew I was
coming out that day and my brother at
the time he was eight years old
so he went into my computer and then I
read the acceptance letter and told my
dad and then when I came home they kind
of just they were really happy and I was
pretty happy too what did they say to
you do you remember there it was just
all smiles and there are congratulations
we couldn't believe could you believe it
to be honest I thought I had a decent
chance because I had known some people
who had gotten it and they helped me and
I understood the process
yeah as you were explaining that sorry I
felt the excitement you know Asian
parents you go home Harvard that so all
I can do is give my mom that's early
even though I didn't get you know it's
like a consolation prize all right guys
we had a move now we're cozy blanketed
at the bottom of a ski hill so what do
you want to talk about next a lot of
high school students ask what should I
do in high school I think if you're
already asking that question and it's
great but also a lot of students might
think there's some tried or true method
and there are things that colleges
generally like like strong academics
strong extracurriculars but there is no
formula per se there are so many factors
that varied case-by-case so I think
what's really invariant that what
applied to any one is two things one to
figure out what you're passionate in if
you follow your passions then it's much
easier to become good at something and
colleges are able to see that step two
is be unique be yourself look at what
other people are doing around you and
look actually at what they're not doing
so that you can figure out your niche
figure out your niche
sleep not articulate usually this isn't
an issue when you combine following your
passions with being able to find your
own niche that's different from your
friends peers around you then those are
really the two most important factors
and that allow you to really excel and
truly be good at something that's
amazing thank you I think that was a
very detailed explanation of the mindset
you need because the thing by thing you
know like what you do exactly it doesn't
really matter as much as the mindset you
put into it right yeah if you want to be
in the business world one day then you
might just call this entrepreneurial
mindset if you're more interested in
humanities and one day you want to be a
writer then you might call this writing
your own story yeah cuz I don't think
Harvard cares that much about the
particular thing but rather being
passionate about it and being good at it
and showing that it's affecting your
life in some way
exactly I had a friend who was a
breakdancer competitively in high school
and he's using however with you okay
awesome
thank you Cheers that was a great
explanation
what is your last piece of parting
advice for high school students have fun
really have fun work hard have fun what
is your one piece of advice for college
students who are graduating take some
risks early on you've got nothing to
lose
because you're fresh out of college
that's true thank you coming on this ski
trip with me now we're gonna hit the
slopes
so I wish you guys good luck on your
application process and if you're not in
high school I hope you go take some
risks and subscribe
say hi to all right thank you see you
next time peace
[Music]